[Music]
eleven secrets advertisers don't want
you to know go into a cafe or store we
usually have an idea of what we're going
to buy there however we often make
purchases on a whim that we can't later
explain even to ourselves have you ever
been in a situation like this have you
ever spent much more than you planned
if so watch these ingenious tricks
advertisers use and hope to get all of
your money at once the last rate is
totally unfair we think it should be
prohibited forever so let's see how
marketing experts fool us 11 they offer
a trendy product the simplest of goods
sometimes return in glory after a
rebranding well anyone these days by
ordinary cakes and take pictures of them
for Instagram not at all however if you
slightly change the recipe update their
looks and turn them into fancy cupcakes
the cake will gain a second wind a
boring muffin would cost a dollar fifty
and a fancy one three bucks 10 they use
psychological tricks in the menu here
are five restaurant tricks that make you
order more let's have a look at all of
them the use of family images family and
childhood associations aroused good
memories ordering grandma's soup we
subconsciously expected to carry us into
our childhood appetizing descriptions
appetizing descriptions such as fresh
hot bread with a crispy crust make our
food reflexes react how can anyone
resist it especially if it's from
Provence placement the upper part of the
menu is the place where you look first
that's why restaurants put the most
delicious-looking
and most expensive dishes there don't
let the marketing gurus catch you read
the menu until the end
warm colors it's amazing how much color
has to do with our appetite it's been
scientifically proven that warm shades
arouse the appetite better
that's why food advertisers use yellow
red and orange colors so often
price drinks people have trouble parting
with their money and restaurants know
that that's why they often don't
indicate the currency 9 they use a
comparison if customers consider some
Goods too expensive and avoid them
marketing experts use this trick they
just place a similar product with a
higher price so that the initial one
seems cheaper by comparison so its sales
will go up again and to be honest I've
always suspected this 8 they create a
legend another nice move is to create a
legend that will follow the product
sometimes they don't even care whether
it makes sense for instance Milky Way
made a TV commercial in the early 90s
showing the candy bar floating in a
glass of milk nonsense
sure it is however it became a
distinguishing feature for Milky Way
bars 7 they make use of our laziness
merchandisers know we're often too lazy
to open up the plastic package and fetch
just one bottle they also know that many
people would think it's a good idea to
take the whole package for later use
wouldn't you 6 they know human
psychology read price tag we tend to
associate a read price tag with a
reduced cost even though that's not
always the case
the price may remain the same and the
tag is just a bright piece of paper a
big cart a huge cart is a well-known
trick to coerce us into buying more
stuff than we need if you don't want to
spend a lot of money go with a smaller
one left to right movement many stores
are arranged so that the customers go
counterclockwise we always turn left and
most frequently look at the middle of
the wall to the right exactly where
merchandisers put the expiring or most
expensive goods small tiles on the floor
carts make much more noise on them and
we slow down to avoid it this makes us
spend more time at the store taking a
good look at the offers and probably
buying more
five they sell twice as much have you
ever wondered why people in chewing gum
ads always take two pieces at a time
well that's a trick to make you think
it's the correct way to chew it
meanwhile you'll use twice as many
pieces during the same period and
manufacturers will sell more the same
goes for certain drugs and vitamins the
text on a shampoo bottle reminding you
that you can apply the shampoo twice
works similarly well for they add
authority manufacturers always try to
make their products looked more
trustworthy and reliable for instance
they inform you that there's exotic
flower essence contained in the shampoo
even if it's at a 1 to 10,000 ratio also
they may disregard the actual usefulness
of this flower for your hair another
trick is to say that this shampoo is
recommended by each and every stylist in
Paris or Hollywood 3 they raise the
price for similar Goods it turns out
that goods for women cost 7 percent more
than similar products for men despite
the only difference being their color
why is this so unfair this phenomenon
has been nicknamed the pink tax and is
due to the opinion that women are the
best customers this mainly concerns
shampoos shaving accessories and
children's goods too they misrepresent
goods
writing descriptions for food products
marketing experts often manipulate terms
for instance the famous potato chips
Pringles are not really potato chips
with actual potato content being only
42% this also explains their unnaturally
perfect shape the same goes for cheese
especially that in separately packed
slices the content of real cheese is
less than 51% so the manufacturers have
to label it cheese product though in
small letters written far away from
brand names containing the word cheese
one they make things serve for last time
in 1957 Hinkle's produced a batch of
potato peelers that were so good people
bought them once in a lifetime the sales
were low then someone came up with a
genius idea to paint the device's
handles the color of potato peel people
started accidentally throwing away the
peelers with the skins and sales went up
again try to recall maybe you've got
tools with similar characteristics have
you ever noticed any other clever tricks
in the stores share them in the comments
to help all of us save money and don't
forget to hit the like button and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]